.\" Manpage for franta.
.TH FRANTA 1 "2026-06-19" "franta" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
franta \- terminal UI for Apache Kafka
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B franta
.RI [ --config " PATH" ]
.RI [ --cluster " NAME" ]
.RI [ --from " POS" ]
.RI [ TOPIC ]
.br
.B franta consume
.RI [ --config " PATH" ]
.RI [ --cluster " NAME" ]
.RI [ --filter " QUERY" ]
.RI [ --from " POS" ]
.RI [ TOPIC ]
.br
.B franta version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B franta
is a terminal UI for Apache Kafka with AWS MSK IAM auth, an SQL-ish filter
DSL, consumer-group lag, topic administration, and Schema Registry decoding
(Confluent and AWS Glue).
.PP
With no subcommand it launches the interactive 3-pane TUI (topics, messages,
detail). If
.I TOPIC
is omitted the topics pane is used to pick one; if no cluster is resolved a
picker is shown.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B consume
Stream matching records to stdout as JSON, without the TUI (headless).
.TP
.B version
Print the version, commit, and build date, then exit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --config " PATH"
Path to the config file (default: the per-user config path).
.TP
.BI --cluster " NAME"
Cluster name to use. Defaults to the config's
.IR default_cluster .
.TP
.BI --from " POS"
Start position. See
.BR "START POSITIONS" .
For the TUI the default comes from the cluster's
.I default_seek
or
.BR end ;
for
.B consume
it defaults to
.BR end .
.TP
.BI --filter " QUERY"
.RB ( consume
only) DSL filter applied to streamed records, e.g.
.RB \(dq value.amount\ >=\ 100 \(dq.
.SH START POSITIONS
The
.B --from
value accepts:
.BR end ,
.BR beginning ,
.BI last: N
(last N records),
a Go duration such as
.B 1h
or
.B 30m
(relative to now), or an RFC3339 timestamp such as
.BR 2026-05-27T00:00:00Z .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/franta/config.yaml
Default config file (clusters, auth, schema registry, saved filters). Override
with
.BR --config .
.TP
.I filters.yaml
Saved DSL filters, kept next to the config file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Open the TUI on the default cluster:
.B franta
.TP
Open a topic from the end:
.B franta --cluster prod-msk orders
.TP
Headless tail with a filter:
.B franta consume --from last:100 --filter 'partition == 0' orders
.SH SEE ALSO
Project home: https://github.com/jindrichskupa/franta
